# Project DIVA 2nd/Extend to Future Tone Converter
This repository contains the scripts I used to port every song from 2nd/extend to MegaMix+ with the [New Classics mod](https://gamebanana.com/mods/596416). In total, the following scripts are provided:
* **fix_packaged.py**: fixes the Project DIVA 2nd scripts for *Packaged* to not use a double note.
* **create_transpose.py:** takes in a json database of script opcodes in the format of `"<id>":{"opcode":"<name>", "len": "<len>"}`, then converts it to one with entries in the format of `"<name>":{"opcode":"<id>", "len": "<len>"}` (internally called a "transpose").
* **ext_to_FT.py**: contains functions for loading and saving .dsc files when provided opcode databases as described above, as well as converting 2nd/extend style .dsc files to MM+ new classics style ones. When run as a script, it takes in a 2nd/extend .dsc file, strips all commands related to the PV rather than the chart, and outputs a converted file in MM+ new classics style. This script will be in the Project Diva F format, but it will only be usable on MM+ with New Classics installed
* **mass_convert.py**: performs all required conversion steps for generating a New Classics-style mod of all 2nd/extend .dsc scripts in a given directory. Further details are explained in the [Usage](#usage) section.
* **difficulty_scraper**: contains two scripts, **download_list.py** and **extract_diff.py** which were used to scrape the Project DIVA fandom wiki for song difficulties
* **fix_pv_db.py**: edits a `mod_pv_db.py` file in-place to make sure its pv IDs are in ascending order.
* **guess_sync.py**: a script that (usually poorly) attempts to guess the correct offset time between a 2nd/extend chart and a reference chart based on two notes that should theoretically take place at the same time
* **make_db.py**: Uses a json file of PV IDs with missing difficulties to extract pv_db info for songs missing certain difficulties in arcade style and enabling those difficulties.

## Usage
The following parameters can be defined in **mass_convert.py** to change the behavior of mod generation:
* `EXT_FOLDER`: the folder which stores the files to be converted
* `OUT`: the folder to generate the mod in
* `DIFF_LIST`: a dictionary of difficulty names and their corresponding indicies in each entry of `star_conv.json`
* `PROFILE`: the conversion profile. currently, only `NO_CHANCE` is implemented
* `F2ND_COMPAT`: whether to generate the mod with compatibility with the F2nd song pack in mind. For this to work, the F2nd mod pack extreme chart of each overlapping song must be present in `F2nd_scripts`
* `IGNORE_NORMALIZE`: by default, every song is normalized such that the music starts playing at time zero. If that causes issues, add the song's MM+ id to this list.
* `END_NORMALIZE`: Ensures PV fadeout time is 1 second before PV end time for indicated songs.

To generate the mod with **mass_convert.py**, the following must be present for each chart to be converted:
* a 2nd/extend-styled chart in `EXT_FOLDER` titled in the format `pv_{song_id}_{song_difficulty}.dsc`
* the complete database of MM+ scripts (with DLC) in the  `MM_script_database/` folder
 * these files can be completely empty and code from it will not be included in the final mod.
* a conversion between that song's 2nd/ext ids to its MM+ id in `2nd_ext_to_ft.json`
* the star level for that chart's difficulty (organized by MM+ id) in `star_conv.json`, following the convention defined by `DIFF_LIST`.

## Manual Time Sync
You can specify manual time syncs in `timeshift.json`. A negative number increases the delay on notes, while a positive number decreases it. To Sync from two note times manually:
- Find two notes that occur on the same "beat" in a song
- Add the note start time and flight time together for the **2nd/extend** chart
- Add the note start time and flight time together for the **MM+/F2nd Pack** chart
- Subtract the latter from the former.

## Mod Files Folder
Contains files required for the mod to function properly, but which are not generated by `mass_convert.py`. you should be able to copy the contents of the `normal` or `f2nd` folder to the generated mod and have it work without hassle.
- **config.toml** contains data required for use by DivaModManager
- **mod_pv_db.txt** is required for certain ex. extremes in the f2nd compatible version and certain normal and easy charts in the normal version. If these cause conflicts with other mods and you are willing to sacrifice these charts, set the conflicting mod to load before this one.

Some useful timeshifts have already been specified in this repository

## Limitations
* The F2nd compatible version *must* be loaded before the F2nd song pack to function properly.
* `mass_convert.py` does not generate a `config.toml` as is required by DivaModManager. There are no plans to change this
* If the MM+ script starts playing music after time 0, the produced script will very likely be off sync. This may be changed in the future if such a case is found
* many 2nd/extend charts are slightly off-sync. Manual adjustment is required.

## Future Plans
| Item                                                                              | Planned Timeline                     | Current Progress |
|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------|--------------------------------------|------------------|
| Port charts from 2nd DLC that do not have MM+ PVs (GO MY WAY!! & Relations)       | Long-term goal                       | To Start Soon    |
| Better error handling and command line behavior                                   | Short-term goal                      | In Progress      |
| Better Code Documentation                                                         | Short-term goal                      | In Progress      |
| Compatibility with F/F2nd/X Chart Packs                                           | Short-term goal                      | Finished         |
| Fix Electric Angel                                                                | Short-term goal                      | Finished         |
| Fix Sync Errors                                                                   | Short-term goal                      | Nearly Finished  |
| Fix PV End Times                                                                  | Short-term goal                      | Nearly Finished  |
| GameBanana & DivaModArchive Publishing                                            | Short-term goal                      | Finished         |
| Chance Time version                                                               | Long-term goal                       | Finished         |
| YouTube Preview                                                                   | Long-term goal                       | Not Started      |
| Project DIVA 1st charts                                                           | Long-term goal                       | Not Started      |

## Credits
`f_opcodes.json` and `2nd_opcodes.json` were adapted from [nastys' DSC Studio](https://github.com/nastys/nastys.github.io/tree/master/dsceditor). The codebase was also used as reference for some functions in `ext_to_FT.py`. [Samyuu's](https://github.com/samyuu) ScriptEditor was also helpful in determining the implementation differences between some 2nd/extend opcodes and MM+ opcodes. Chart difficulty information in `star_conv.json` was largely provided by [The Project DIVA wiki on Fandom](project-diva.fandom.com).
